Signed pipelines guide docs (#2524)
buildkite/docs: pages/agent/v3/signed-pipelines.md

# Signed pipelines

## What are signed pipelines?

> Signed Pipelines is a security feature on the Buildkite Agent that allows you to cryptographically sign steps that are uploaded Buildkite, and then verify that signature on the Buildkite Agent before running the step. This can prevent a malicious actor from modifying the steps that are run on your agents, especially in the (hopefully unlikely) event that the Buildkite backend is compromised.

Reviewer: > especially in the (hopefully unlikely) event that the Buildkite backend is compromised.

hmmmmmmmmm. Not sure the best way to talk about this. What this really allows is a zero-trust model. Perhaps something like "This allows you to assert that the steps the agent is being instructed to run were uploaded by your own agents, removing the necessity to trust Buildkite." ? Along those lines, not necessarily those words

Author: ooooh yesssssssss very good. will steal that

> These signatures mean that while a threat actor could modify jobs in flight, when the Agent runs those steps, when it tries to verify the signature, it will fail, and the step will not be run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These signatures mean that if a threat actor were able to modify a job in flight, the Agent would refuse to run it due to mismatched signatures.
```

Simpler, and changes from "while something bad can happen" to "if it were somehow possible" - slightly different language

<details>
  <summary>I think I've seen this before...</summary>
  This work is inspired by the older <a href="https://github.com/buildkite/buildkite-signed-pipeline"><code>buildkite-signed-pipeline</code></a> tool, which was a tool you could add to your agent instances. It had a similar idea - signing steps before they're uploaded to Buildkite, then verifying them when they're run. However, it had a number of limitations, including:
  <ul>
    <li>It had to be installed on every agent instance, leading to more configuration</li>
    <li>It only supported symmetric HS256 signatures, meaning that every verifier could also sign uploads</li>
    <li>It couldn't sign matrix steps</li>
  </ul>

  This newer version of pipeline signing is built right into the agent, and addresses all of these limitations. Being built into the agent, it's easier to configure and use.

  Many thanks to Seek.com.au, who we collaborated with on the older version of the tool, and who have been instrumental in the development of this newer version.

> </details>

Reviewer: This'll need a pass from someone with a better sense than I of the tone we use in our docs

> ## Enabling signed pipelines on your pipelines

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Enabling signed pipelines on your agents
```
Less repetition?

Behind the scenes, Signed Pipelines uses [JSON Web Signing (JWS)](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7797) to generate its signatures. This means that you'll need to generate a [JSON Web Key Set (JWKS)](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7517) to sign and verify your pipelines with, then configure your agents to use those keys.

### How do I generate a key pair?

Luckily, the Buildkite Agent has you covered! There's a JWKS generation tool built into the agent, which you can use to generate a key pair for you. To run it, you'll need to [install the agent on your machine](/docs/agent/v3/installation), and then run:
```bash
buildkite-agent tool keygen --alg <algorithm> --key-id <key-id>
```

replacing `<algorithm>` and `<key-id>` with the algorithm you want to use, and the key ID you want to use. For example, to generate an RSA-PSS key pair with a key ID of `my-key-id`, you'd run:
```bash

> buildkite-agent tool keygen --alg PS256 --key-id my-key-id

Reviewer: If we're recommending `EdDSA`, then I'd suggest using that here. People will just copy and paste

```

> The agent will then generate two JSON Web Key Sets for you, one public and one private, and output them to files in the current directory. You can then use these keys to sign and verify your pipelines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The agent will then generate two JSON Web Key Sets for you, one private and one public, and output them to files in the current directory. You can then use these keys to sign and verify your pipelines, respectively.
```

Author: oh whoops! i'll add it to this batch of edits.

If no key id is provided, the agent will generate a random one for you.

Note that the value of `--alg` must be a valid [JSON Web Signing Algorithm](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7518#section-3). The agent does not support the `none` algorithm, or any signature algorithms in the `RS` series (any signing algorithms that use RSASSA-PKCS1 v1.5 signatures, `RS256` for example).

<details>
  <summary>Why doesn't the agent support RSASSA-PKCS1 v1.5 signatures?</summary>
  In short, it's because RSASSA-PKCS1 v1.5 signatures are generally regarded to be less secure than the newer RSA-PSS signatures. While RSASSA-PKCS1 v1.5 signatures are still largely known to be relatively secure, we want to encourage our users to use the most secure algorithms possible, so when using RSA keys, we only support RSA-PSS signatures. We also recommend looking into ECDSA and EdDSA signatures, which are generally regarded to be more secure than RSA signatures.
</details>

### What algorithm should I use?

> Signed Pipelines supports a number of different signing algorithms, which can largely be broken down into two categories: Symmetric Signing Algorithms (where signing and verification use the same keys), and Asymmetric Signing Algorithms (where signing and verification use different keys).

Reviewer: Are Symmetric Signing Algorithms / Asymmetric Signing Algorithms proper terms? I.e. should they be capitalised? or
```suggestion
Signed Pipelines supports a number of different signing algorithms, which can largely be broken down into two categories: symmetric algorithms (where signing and verification use the same keys), and asymmetric algorithms (where signing and verification use different keys).
```

Author: yep, good call - they should be lowercase

We recommend using an asymmetric signing algorithm, as it creates a permissions boundary between the agents that upload and sign pipelines, and agents that run other jobs and have the ability to verify signatures. This means that were an attacker able to compromise instances with verification keys, they wouldn't be able to modify the steps that are run on your agents.

With regards to specific algorithm choice, basically any of the asymmetric signing algorithms we support are fine and will be secure. If you're not sure which one to use, `EdDSA` is proven to be secure, has a modern design, wasn't designed by a Nation State Actor, and produces nice short signatures.

Signed pipelines supports the following signing algorithms:

#### Symmetric
- `HS256`
- `HS384`
- `HS512`

#### Asymmetric
- `PS256`
- `PS384`
- `PS512`
- `ES256`
- `ES384`
- `ES512`
- `EdDSA`

### Making your agents sign steps they upload 

Now that your keys are generated, we need to configure your agents to use them. On agents that will be uploading pipelines, add the following to your agent's config file:
```ini
job-signing-jwks-path=<path to signing keys>
signing-key-id=<the key id you generated earlier>

> job-verification-jwks-path=<path to verification keys>

Reviewer: Does the signing agent require the verification key? If so, I'd note here why - "the signing agent requires the verification key as well in order to validate the signature" or whatever the reason is.

Author: ahah, i was in the process of writing that section when i committed this. tl;dr, if we statically sign the initial steps, the uploader needs to both be able to verify the signature on the initial steps, and sign the steps it uploads from the repo

Reviewer: Ah of course!

```

On instances that will verify jobs, add:
```ini
job-verification-jwks-path=<path to verification keys>
```

No

### Signing the pipeline's stored configuration

[ed: this section feels clunky to me, and i'm not sure the best way to explain it - we need to sign the initial steps of a pipeline as well as the steps that get uploaded by an agent, but it's difficult to concisely convey all the concepts involved]

> In Buildkite, pipelines have two YAML definitions - one that's stored Buildkite, which you can change on the settings page for a given pipeline, and other(s) that are uploaded by agents. In this guide, we'll refer to the former as the "stored" configuration, and the latter as "uploaded" configuration. The stored configuration generally contains the initial steps needed to run a pipeline, and almost always contains a step that uploads a pipeline to Buildkite.

Reviewer: Perhaps something like 
```suggestion
Builds in Buildkite pipelines are initialized using steps that are configured on the pipeline itself. In the course of running a job, the Buildkite Agent can [upload further steps to the pipeline](link to some info about this elsewhere in the docs). We will refer to the former as "configured steps" and the latter as "uploaded steps". It is common for the configured steps to be a single step that uploads the remainder of pipeline from [a YAML file in the repository](link to info about ./buildkite.yaml).
```

Reviewer: "To ensure that all steps in a pipeline are signed, you will need to manually sign the configured steps. To do this..." etc

Author: ooooooh love it

> > Some older Buildkite pipelines don't use YAML for their stored pipeline configuration - these aren't supported by signed pipelines, and will have to be migrated to use the new format.

Author: ```suggestion
> Some older Buildkite pipelines don't use YAML for their stored pipeline configuration - these can't be signed, and will have to be migrated to use the new format to be used with signed pipelines
```

You may have noticed that when we configured the signing instances, we gave them the capability to both sign and verify jobs. For maximum security, the stored pipeline will need to be

The solution here is to add static signatures to the steps in your pipeline's stored configuration.

[ed: explain how to do this - buildkite-agent pipeline upload --jwks-file-path /path/to/keys --signing-key-id blah --dry-run and copy and paste into buildkite's UI]

### Hard mode: static signatures

> [ed: if you're really paranoid, you can sign a pipeline once, and hardcode the signatures into your pipeline yaml. this means that if anyone changes anything on the signed steps, your jobs will fail]

Reviewer: What's the advantage to doing this? Is it so you don't have to trust agent updates that might introduce vulnerabilities/attacks via the signing process?

Reviewer: Just wondering if it's worth even explaining here. You already explain signing stored configuration above - not that hard to connect the dots

Author: the advantage it offers over "dynamic" signing (ie signing the pipeline each time it's uploaded) is that it protects against the case of "someone got into my repo and turned all of my test scripts into bitcoin miners", which is definitely something i think at least some of our customers would appreciate. the downside is that basically every time you edit the pipeline.yml you'd have to re-sign it, which could get to be a pain

Author: given that we're going to be signing build invariants, this approach has a lot less utility - i'm gonna yeet it

## Rotating signing keys

[ed: generate new keys, and add them to the existing key sets you've already generated. switch over the --signing-key-id and bob's your uncle]

## General guidance for running signed pipelines

> [ed: something about using different queues for pipeline uploads vs everything else, then give uploaders the singing key and runners the verification key]

Reviewer: I'd bump this section up below the stored config part

# Signed pipelines

## What are signed pipelines?

Signed Pipelines is a security feature on the Buildkite Agent that allows you to cryptographically sign steps that are uploaded Buildkite, and then verify that signature on the Buildkite Agent before running the step. This signature helps agents establish the provenance of the jobs that they run - asserting that the steps were uploaded by a trusted agent, and that they haven't been modified since they were uploaded. If an agent detects a signature mismatch, by default, it'll refuse to run the job.

> These signatures mean that if a threat actor were able to modify a job in flight, the Agent would refuse to run it due to mismatched signatures.

Author: i think the pattern i fell into was `Buildkite Agent` gets Titlecase, `agent` on its own isn't a proper noun so it doesn't - that could be contra to policy though

  <ul>
    <li>It had to be installed on every agent instance, leading to more configuration</li>
    <li>It only supported symmetric HS256 signatures, meaning that every verifier could also sign uploads</li>
    <li>It couldn't sign matrix steps</li>
  </ul>

  This newer version of pipeline signing is built right into the agent, and addresses all of these limitations. Being built into the agent, it's easier to configure and use.

  Many thanks to Seek.com.au, who we collaborated with on the older version of the tool, and whose prior art has been instrumental in the development of this newer version.
</details>

### What we actually sign

As mentioned above, signed pipelines establishes that important aspects of steps haven't been changed since pipeline upload. In more detail, we sign the following aspects of steps:
- The command

> - Environment variables _as defined in the pipeline YAML_ - environment variables set by the agent or by the user's shell are not signed

Reviewer 2: There could be a command hook that totally ignores the signed command, too. Perhaps the more general principle is that we're making some guarantees about the _initial_ state of signed and verified jobs.

- Any plugins used by the step, and their configurations
- The matrix configuration [^1]

> - The step's key, if present

Reviewer 2: This would currently be WIP

Author: ```suggestion
- The step's key, if present [WIP]
```

```bash
buildkite-agent tool keygen --alg <algorithm> --key-id <key-id>
```

replacing `<algorithm>` and `<key-id>` with the algorithm you want to use, and the key ID you want to use. For example, to generate an EdDSA key pair with a key ID of `my-key-id`, you'd run:
```bash
buildkite-agent tool keygen --alg EdDSA --key-id my-key-id
```

The agent will then generate two JSON Web Key Sets for you, one public and one private, and output them to files in the current directory. You can then use these keys to sign and verify your pipelines.

If no key id is provided, the agent will generate a random one for you.

Note that the value of `--alg` must be a valid [JSON Web Signing Algorithm](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7518#section-3). The agent does not support the `none` algorithm, or any signature algorithms in the `RS` series (any signing algorithms that use RSASSA-PKCS1 v1.5 signatures, `RS256` for example).

<details>
  <summary>Why doesn't the agent support RSASSA-PKCS1 v1.5 signatures?</summary>

>   In short, it's because RSASSA-PKCS1 v1.5 signatures are generally regarded to be less secure than the newer RSA-PSS signatures. While RSASSA-PKCS1 v1.5 signatures are still largely known to be relatively secure, we want to encourage our users to use the most secure algorithms possible, so when using RSA keys, we only support RSA-PSS signatures. We also recommend looking into ECDSA and EdDSA signatures, which are generally regarded to be more secure than RSA signatures.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  In short, it's because RSASSA-PKCS1 v1.5 signatures are generally regarded to be less secure than the newer RSA-PSS signatures. While RSASSA-PKCS1 v1.5 signatures are still largely known to be relatively secure, we want to encourage our users to use the most secure algorithms possible, so when using RSA keys, we only support RSA-PSS signatures. We also recommend looking into ECDSA and EdDSA signatures.
```
I'd leave this out because it may not be accurate under quantum attacks. It looks like because ECC uses keys that are an order of magnitude shorter, they may be broken by smaller quantum computers than that required to break RSA that would be weaker classically: see https://security.stackexchange.com/questions/33069/why-is-ecc-more-vulnerable-than-rsa-in-a-post-quantum-world

Of course, no such quantum computer is known to exist.

Reviewer: We should get Ashwin's take on this all too

Author: yeah, stuff like this was why i hedged hard af whenever i talked about crypto - there's a lot of "generally regarded to be" and "thought to be" and "can be".

regardless, i don't mind this page to become a lie when quantum computing becomes available

```

This will ensure that whenever those agents upload steps to Buildkite, they'll generate signatures for those steps using the private key we generated earlier. It also ensures that those agents will verify the signatures of any steps they run, using the public key.

On instances that will verify jobs, add:
```ini
job-verification-jwks-path=<path to verification keys>
```

### 3. Signing the pipeline's stored configuration

[ed: this section feels clunky to me, and i'm not sure the best way to explain it - we need to sign the initial steps of a pipeline as well as the steps that get uploaded by an agent, but it's difficult to concisely convey all the concepts involved]

Builds in Buildkite pipelines are initialized using steps that are configured on the pipeline itself. In the course of running a job, the Buildkite Agent can [upload further steps to the pipeline](link to some info about this elsewhere in the docs). We will refer to the former as "configured steps" and the latter as "uploaded steps". It's common for the configured steps to be a single step that uploads the remainder of pipeline from [a YAML file in the repository](link to info about ./buildkite.yaml).

> > Some older Buildkite pipelines don't use YAML for their stored pipeline configuration - these can't be signed, and will have to be migrated to use the new format to be used with signed pipelines - see [Migrating to YAML steps](/docs/tutorials/pipeline_upgrade)

Author: yep, good call

You may have noticed that when we configured the signing instances, we gave them the capability to both sign and verify jobs. For maximum security, the configured steps - usually a single step that uploads (and signs!) the remainder of the pipeline - should themselves be signed.

The solution here is to add static signatures to the steps in your pipeline's stored configuration.

To do this, copy the YAML from the editor on the pipeline's page in Buildkite, and paste it into a file on your machine. Then, run:
```bash

> buildkite-agent pipeline upload --jwks-file-path <path to private keys> --signing-key-id <key id> --dry-run <path to pipeline file>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
buildkite-agent pipeline upload --jwks-file-path <path to private keys> --signing-key-id <key id> --dry-run --format yaml <path to pipeline file>
```

```

> for example, if you had a file called `pipeline.yml` in the current directory, and you wanted to sign it with the key we generated earlier, you'd run:

Reviewer: Actually - I think it'd help to differentiate a bit more. "file called `pipeline.yml` in the current directory" makes me think of the pipeline file in the repo. Perhaps

```suggestion
For example, if your pipeline's configured steps were available as `configured-steps.yaml` in the current directory, and you wanted to sign it with the key we generated earlier, you'd run:
```

(and update the command)

> for example, if you had a file called `pipeline.yml` in the current directory, and you wanted to sign it with the key we generated earlier, you'd run:

Author: my lowercase tendencies slipped into the docs for a hot second there

also, configured-steps is a good call

```bash

> buildkite-agent pipeline upload --jwks-file-path /path/to/private/key.json --signing-key-id my-key-id --dry-run pipeline.yml

Author: ```suggestion
buildkite-agent pipeline upload --jwks-file-path /path/to/private/key.json --signing-key-id my-key-id --dry-run --format yaml pipeline.yml
```

Reviewer 2: Check .yml/.yaml consistency too

```

This will output the pipeline YAML, with the signatures added to the steps. You can then copy this YAML back into the editor on the pipeline's page in Buildkite, and save it.

## Rotating signing keys

> Because signed pipelines use JWKS as their key format, rotating keys is easy. To rotate your keys, simply generate a new key pair, and add the new keys to your existing key sets, being careful not to mix public and private keys. Once the updated key sets are in place, you can update the `signing-key-id` on your signing agents to use the new key ID. Verifying agents will automatically the public key with the matching key ID, if it's present.

Reviewer: >Verifying agents will automatically [use] the public key with the matching key ID, if it's present.

Isn't it signing agents that need the key ID? and verifying agents just try all the keys to see if one works? Or is the key ID now in the signature itself, so the verifying agent can reference that?

Author: the key ID is encoded in the header of the signature - here's one i pulled from the agent pipeline: `eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6IjEifQ..Ue0tFd7jaZj66huix2TZ1UanAB4vHlWZn1utvXQDjSMmJDQ1wWVG8fDCdboZrUcnxzNen1MaU8NfX_vOr5T7sQ`

when you base64 decode the first segment there, it gives: `{"alg":"ES256","kid":"1"}` - our key id in the agent is imaginatively called `1`. Our library then pulls this out of the header and looks for a key with that key ID in the verification JWKS.

if we didn't include a key ID (which isn't allowed as is), the library would then try each key in sequence.

Reviewer: Gotcha - thanks! In that case:
```suggestion
Because signed pipelines use JWKS as their key format, rotating keys is easy. To rotate your keys, simply generate a new key pair, and add the new keys to your existing key sets, being careful not to mix public and private keys. Once the updated key sets are in place, you can update the `signing-key-id` on your signing agents to use the new key ID. Verifying agents will automatically use the public key with the matching key ID, if it's present.
```

> Because signed pipelines use JWKS as their key format, rotating keys is easy. To rotate your keys, simply generate a new key pair, and add the new keys to your existing key sets, being careful not to mix public and private keys. Once the updated key sets are in place, you can update the `signing-key-id` on your signing agents to use the new key ID. Verifying agents will automatically the public key with the matching key ID, if it's present.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Because signed pipelines use JWKS as their key format, rotating keys is easy. To rotate your keys, simply generate a new key pair, and add the new keys to your existing key sets, being careful not to mix public and private keys. Once the updated key sets are in place, you can update the `signing-key-id` on your signing agents to use the new key ID. Verifying agents will automatically use the public key with the matching key ID, if it's present.
```
